now we talk about the new Torch EOS 10R
It comes as in this beautiful box
we open it and what do we find? we find
a very nice
pouch that helps prevent
any damage to the exterior surface of
the torch when traveling
it is divided in two sections in the main
section
we have the torch itself
and a user manual and on the other side
we have a small compartment for the
charger because the
R of 10 R stands for rechargeable let's
talk about the charger first
the connection is on the back of the
torch
doesn't require any plug that has to be
removed or opening or anything
you just have to ensure that after every
Dive rinse it so the contacts are
always nice and clean
on the charger we have this plug that
just mates
perfectly with the contacts it will take
about four hours to charge the battery
from
totally empty to completely full and
this will give you two and a half hours
of burn time with a constant output
this is what makes the torch very a
special is that we have electronics
inside
that allow us to have constant light
output
throughout the life of the battery and
instead of having
dwindling light over time now
the torch is made out of anodized
aluminum and it weighs about 700 grams
so a little bit over one and a half
pounds for a total length
of 21 centimeters which should be a
little bit over eight inches
in water this will be perfectly balance
there is no
lift and there's no sinking.
We have four centimeter slightly under
two inches diameter here
which allows you to hold it very
comfortably with or without gloves
we have a safety latch on the
and mechanism to turn it on so that it
doesn't turn on inadvertently
this which itself is a magnetic switch
and you turn the light on by rotating
this ring a magnetic switch has the
advantage that there is no perforation
going
through the housing and therefore one
less chance of having a leak
into the torch itself the EOS 10 R
comes with a nice lanyard
attached to the back of the light one
detail about the back of the light
we have a over pressure relief valve
because we have rechargeable batteries
and this is a safety feature
you must have when you have
rechargeable batteries one detail about
the charger
it is electronically controlled so that
once it
realizes that the torch is completely
charge it cuts off power supply
so that you don't have any risk
overcharging or
anything else that might happen them
one more detail about the process of
charging the torch four hours for a
complete charge
but one hour we'll give you forty eight
minutes of burn time at maximum power
at the choice anodised aluminum makes
so this a very rugged at torch with a
maximum operating depth about 150 meters
pretty much 500 feet
so let's talk about the technical specs
of the starch
we have a 9 watt high-power
Mono LED with about 1100
lumen output.
We have about 12,500 lumen hotspot
and we have a very white crown for
improved visibility
on a night dive. Light is identified
by a color temperature which tells us
what kind of
color comes out at this light and lately
there's been the trend of using
a high power LED is that make a very
white light
or bluish light which is a great for
power consumption but not so great for
really appreciating what is under water
we have chosen
color temperature of 5000 kelvin
which really brings out the colours and
everything we have under water
and this pretty much sums it up a great
light with a lot of features
from Mares